W-13750485 APIM <> APIG (#537)
mulesoft/docs-api-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/govern-api-instances.adoc

= Governing API Instances
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

API Manager is closely integrated with xref:api-governance::index.adoc[Anypoint API Governance] to govern aspects of API instances with governance rulesets. Applying a governance ruleset to your API ensures that every instance of that API conforms to standards such as what policies are applied and if a TLS context is required.  

To govern an API instance:

. <<apply-a-ruleset>>
. <<view-api-manager>>

[[apply-a-ruleset]]
== Apply a Governance Ruleset

To govern API instances, you must apply a governance ruleset to your desired API. To apply a governance ruleset, see xref:api-governance::create-profiles.adoc[].

To create custom rulesets that enforce your own API management standards, see xref:api-governance::create-custom-rulesets.adoc[].

[[view-api-manager]]

> == View and Fix Instance Conformance issues in API Manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== View and Fix Instance Conformance Issues in API Manager
```

= Governing API Instances
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

API Manager is closely integrated with xref:api-governance::index.adoc[Anypoint API Governance] to govern aspects of API instances with governance rulesets. Applying a governance ruleset to your API ensures that every instance of that API conforms to standards such as what policies are applied and if a TLS context is required.  

To govern an API instance, see <<apply>>.

After applying a governance ruleset to a specific API, view and fix the conformance issues for its API instances:

* <<view-api-manager>>

> * <<view-api-governance>>

Reviewer 2: This link is broken now since that section is removed. The organization here is a little odd too, because you send them to <<apply>> and then have an intro and other links. You could make this bullet points instead like:
To govern an API instance:
* <<apply>>
* <<view-api-manager>>

Reviewer 2: For some reason the text in the <>s is invisible above, but it's the anchor names.

= Governing API Instances
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> API Manager is closely integrated with xref:api-governance::index.adoc[API Governance] to govern aspects of API instances with governance rulesets. Applying a governance ruleset to your API ensures that every instance of that API conforms to standards such as what policies are applied and if a TLS context is required.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
API Manager is closely integrated with xref:api-governance::index.adoc[Anypoint API Governance] to govern aspects of API instances with governance rulesets. Applying a governance ruleset to your API ensures that every instance of that API conforms to standards such as what policies are applied and whether a TLS context is required.  
```

Reviewer 2: I recently learned that the only acceptable form of the product name is Anypoint API Governance. I missed this on the [Product Tiering and Hierarchy sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1f6v9cjx84ZAHGeZs36A0clZoQc_ggAe6m6e-NQ9BUuk/edit#gid=71218867), and no one on our team seemed to see it either. I'm not sure how changes there are supposed to be communicated, but now they're added to Vale, so that's how I learned about it. Refs to UI as API Governance are okay where that is what it's called there, or at least that is how I'm handling it.

> To govern an API instances, see <<apply>>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To govern an API instance, see <<apply>>.
```

> After applying a Governance ruleset to a specific API, view and fix the conformance issues for its API instances:

Reviewer 2: When used in general, governance should not be capitalized.

> After applying a Governance ruleset to a specific API, view and fix the conformance issues for its API instances:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After applying a governance ruleset to a specific API, view and fix the conformance issues for its API instances:
```

> After applying a Governance ruleset to a specific API, view and fix the conformance issues for its API instances:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After applying a governance ruleset to a specific API, view and fix the conformance issues for its API instances:
```

* <<view-api-manager>>
* <<view-api-governance>>

[[apply]]

> == Apply a Governance Rulesets

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Apply a Governance Ruleset
```

To govern API instances, you must apply a governance ruleset to your desired API. To apply a governance ruleset, see xref:api-governance::create-profiles.adoc[].

> Additionally, you can create custom rulesets to satisfy your specific needs. To create custom governance rulesets, see xref:api-governance::create-custom-rulesets.adoc[].

Reviewer 2: Since they will definitely need to create their own custom rulesets for governing instances if they want to really get value out of Anypoint API Governance, I suggest something a little more prescriptive, something like:
To create custom rulesets that enforce your own API management standards, see xref:api-governance::create-custom-rulesets.adoc[].

[[view-api-manager]]

== View and Fix Instance Conformance issues in API Manager

To view the conformance status of an API instance:

. Navigate to *Anypoint Platform* > *API Manager*. 

> . Click the name of the API instance whose conformance status you want to view.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure "whose" makes sense for an API, and there are precedents in the API Manager doc similar to this:
Click the name of the API instance for which you want to view the conformance status.

+

> *Instance Conformace* appears in the *API Summary* pane.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Instance Conformance* appears in the *API Summary* pane.
```

> . Click *Governance Report* to view the individual rules the instance breaks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Select the *Governance Report* page to view nonconformance details for each ruleset.
```

Reviewer 2: It's not exactly showing the individual rule level, as it is a bit of a rollup. Unless they view the ruleset, it's not at the rule level, so at this point it is best to talk about the details for each ruleset (or you could say issues for the rulesets the instance is nonconformant to)

> . Click *View details* next to each rule to learn how to fix the issue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Click *View details* for each ruleset for information on the issues.
```

Reviewer 2: Accessibility (next to)

Also, it is shown by ruleset, not by rule, and it doesn't really tell you how to fix the issues in most cases.

[[view-api-governance]]

> == View and Fix all Instance Conformance issues in API Governance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== View and Fix all Instance Conformance Issues in API Governance
```

Reviewer 2: I suggest leaving out this entire section and instead just put the link to the Finding and Fixing Conformance Issues in API Instances topic in the See Also section. That section isn't just about viewing the report. It does have doc on the report, but it also tells how to dig into more levels of detail if you don't have enough information in the report.

> To view a detailed report of the conformance issues of all instances of a specific API, see xref:api-governance::fix-instance-conformance-issues.adoc[].

Reviewer 2: See the above comment

== See Also

> 

Reviewer 2: I'd add this here:
* xref:api-governance::fix-instance-conformance-issues.adoc[]
